Axis and Allies AI Project Proposal
Nathan Striebel, Zoren Berlanga, and Brandon Geib
Proposal by Nathan Striebel

	The objective of this project is to program a machine learning algorithm that can competetively play Axis and Allies Classic. This would solve a problem that our group has frequently had, in that Axis and Allies is a game that we like to play, but it is difficult to find enough players given the game's duration and our busy schedules. Having access to an AI would allow us to play without a full complement of five players, and I'm sure that we would continue to develop and refine it even after the fellowship had run its course.
	Axis and Allies is a turn-based strategy board game that simulates WWII, with five players each controlling one of the following nations: the USSR, Germany, the UK, Japan, and the USA. The players are organized into two teams: the Axis, consisting of Germany and Japan against the Allies, consisting of the USSR, the UK, and the USA. Play consists of all nations taking sequential turns in the following order: USSR, Germany, UK, Japan, USA. A nation's turn has five phases: buying new units, choosing combat moves, conducting combat, choosing non-combat moves, and deploying new units. The game's currency is called IPCs (Industrial Production Certificates), and in the first phase of its turn, a nation chooses which unit type and numbers to buy, and spends a corresponding  number of IPCs. After this, the nation chooses all of the territories that they would like to attack (if anywhere), and moves all of the attacking units into these territories. At this point, the 'conduct combat' phase begins. All attacking and defending units are moved to the combat board. Every unit has an attack value and a defense value from 1-4, and a unit scores a hit if a number below this value is rolled on a 6-sided die. Combat Consists of successive rounds as follows: all attacking units roll, defending nation chooses a number of units equal to the hits scored by the attacking units and moves them to the casualty zone, all defending units (including those in the casualty zone) roll, attacking nation chooses a number of units equal to hits scored by the defender and removes them from play, then all units in the casualty zone are removed from play. This continues until all attacking units are destroyed, all defending units are destroyed, or the attacker decides to retreat. After all combat scenarios have been resolved, the nation performs all of its non-combat moves. During this phase, the nation moves its troops in ways that do not directly result in combat, such as moving new troops to the front lines, shoring up defensive positions, and preparing troops to attack in future turns. After this is finished, the nation deploys all of the units that they built at the beginning of their turn to territories where they have factories. They then collect their income, a number of IPCs based on which territories they control, and declare that their turn is over. This continues until one team wins by capturing two enemy capitals.
	Our first task would be to program an engine in python that can run the game. We expect that this will take less than a week, leaving over two weeks to implement the machine learning component. This task will be time consuming, but not overly difficult, as the game has a well-defined set of rules. It will be very object-oriented, involving classes that represent individual unit types, territories, and nations.
	After that, the remainder of the time will be spent implementing and fine-tuning a machine-learning algorithm. I will admit that I have very little experience in this field, so a good deal of research will be required. From our preliminary research and discussions, it seems as though it will be difficult to find enough data to train our algorithm, so we may have to rely on some form of having it play against itself. The reward function will undoubtedly have to be fairly complex, but we know some behaviors that it will encourage. These will include maximizing net IPC income gain, maximizing net unit gain (compared to enemies), and obviously the capture of enemy capitals.
